Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a drama,
fantasy, horror film called,
"The Endless." Spoilers ahead!
A mysterious package arrives at
the home of brothers Justin ... and
Aaron ... . Inside the box is
a videotape from Camp Arcadia,
a group they joined when they were kids. Ten
years ago, Justin pulled himself and his brother
out of the supposed U.F.O. death cult after
learning the group's plans to kill themselves.
But Aaron recalls the camp differently, having
only fond memories of food and support. Comparing
their current poor life, Aaron is convinced
that their lives back at the camp were better.
At therapy, Justin shares his worry for his
brother. He admits that he was relieved that
the people at the cult are still alive but feels
guilty for taking his brother away from them,
should they be as good as
Aaron remembered. Despite that,
Justin adamantly believes being
free in the real world is better.
On the other hand, Aaron expresses his
frustration over Justin's controlling
attitude during his therapy session.
However, Aaron doesn't want to talk to Justin
about it, sparing him from getting hurt.
Upon Aaron's insistence on getting some closure,
Justin finally relents and agrees to go back to
the camp for one day. While they're driving
to the camp, Justin lists down all the things
they did that identify the group as a cult, all
of which Aaron doesn't remember. Hearing this,
Aaron questions why Justin even agreed to
return if he thinks badly about the cult.
The brothers stop at a field where their
mother had died. Aaron notices a painting,
but Justin recalls that it's the painting
they made as kids. Justin looks down the road,
noticing that the opposite paths are alike.
When he turns back, one of the paths changed.
They continue their journey, spotting an
angry man. Finally, they reach Camp Arcadia,
where they receive a warm welcome from
Hal … . The brothers have lunch with Hal
and meet old camp friends Tim, … Anna, ...
and Shane ... . Joining them is a newcomer,
Lizzy, ... who wandered to the camp after
leaving a mental health facility. Across
the room is Dave, ... who stares
at the brothers with a big smile.
Heading to their quarters, Justin points out how
everyone at camp looks the same as when they left,
which Aaron believes is because the
camp provides a healthier lifestyle.
On their bed, Justin finds a
post-it asking them to be quiet.
Justin heads out, jogging around camp while
checking the place out. As he explores the camp,
he finds people practicing archery, Hal loading
up a truck with kegs of home-brewed beer,
and the same angry man marching down the
path, who doesn't seem to notice him.
That evening, the camp gathers around the bonfire.
Noticing Justin's detachment from the others,
Hal invites him to his cabin to taste his
brew of liquor. Justin looks around the cabin,
finding an unfinished equation, which
Hal coyly refuses to say what it's for.
Changing the topic, Hal assures Justin that
they've forgiven him for leaving and talking
to the press about their group, though he
wonders why they returned. Justin's confused,
recalling the videotape they received from the
camp. But Hal claims not knowing about the video.
Aaron chats with Anna at the bonfire and follows
her to her cabin, showing him her fashion designs.
Anna recounts Aaron's fishing hobby when
they used to live here, giving him an idea.
Outside, Shane invites Justin to see a card
trick. Shane chooses Justin's card from the deck,
but Justin lies and says he's wrong. Shane insists
on showing him another magic trick, throwing an
old baseball into the air, which doesn't fall
back. Shane grabs Justin's hand and positions it,
letting Justin catch the ball. Later, Hall gathers
everyone to start the traditional game, the
Struggle. It's a tug of war game with an invisible
opponent, symbolizing their struggle for passion,
growth, and a higher power. As Hal pulls on the
rope, the other end suddenly raises to the sky.
Justin assumes that it's just Dave on
a ladder in the darkness. The crowd
cheers for Aaron to play next, where he fails
almost instantly. However, he doesn't give up.
Aaron ties the rope around his torso on his
second try, letting him use his weight to pull.
He growls as he speeds forward, pulling the
rope successfully until it drops. The crowd
applauds him. Justin hesitates on participating
until Aaron talks him into it. Justin prepares
himself to pull, but the rope whips forward,
causing him to fall with a gash on his hand.
The crowd is silent, with Dave smiling behind
them, clearly not the one who pulled the rope.
Later, Lizzy tends to Justin's wound, sharing
how she used to do the same for a gun enthusiast
who lives in the woods. Hal checks on Justin,
apologizing for what happened. With the two
staring at him expectantly, Justin leaves. As
they walk back to their cabin, Aaron insists on
staying for another day, interested in shooting
some guns for target practice tomorrow. Justin is
not interested at first but eventually agrees.
They spot Tim smoking by a locked cabin. Tim
claims that there's only rowing equipment
inside, which the brothers don't believe.
On their cabin door is another post-it
saying, "Please, be quiet," which they remove.
Unable to sleep, Just in brings
up Aaron and Anna's relationship.
He remembers Anna watching Aaron
intently, even when they were little.
Aaron wonders if it's because they were meant
to be together, but Justin is suspicious.
On the next day, Justin and Aaron practice
with the guns, but Justin oddly misses,
having his bullet fall near them. The bullet is
dented on the head as if it hit something hard.
Later on, the brothers fish in the
lake before Justin jogs by himself.
He sees the strange man marching down
the path again, but he disappears,
leaving a single shoe with a drop of blood
behind. Justin carries on until he finds a storage
container in the field that suddenly moves. A gust
of wind blasts, and for a second, the sky darkens.
Justin looks down and sees polaroids scattered
before him. He picks one up, confused at what's
going on. A tree from behind him falls, making
him jump. Scared, Justin turns back and leaves.
Meanwhile, in an old tent, a recorder plays a song
repeatedly—someone inside runs and grunts over and
over. An antique clock hangs outside the tent;
its second's hand keeps going back 3-seconds.
That night, Lizzy sings for everyone at Karaoke
Night. Behind Justin, another post-it asking
for people to be quiet is on the board. Justin
pulls Hal away from the party, showing him the
polaroid of a buoy in the lake that he picked
up earlier. Justin feels as though something
invisible was watching him, much like when he
was a kid. He disregarded this as imaginary,
but now that he's experienced them again, he
wants answers. In the sky, they find two moons,
which Hal describes as a sign of truth, while a
third moon will signify the ascension. Hal advises
Justin to take Aaron to the buoy in the polaroid
tomorrow and find their answers there. No matter
what he believes in or what he finds there,
it would be a weight off Justin's shoulders.
The night continues with Aaron singing for the
crowd and getting recreational substances from
Anna. Justin finds Lizzy sketching the gun-armed
man from her stories, with his house on fire.
Justin moves on, seeing a girl crying alone.
Meanwhile, Anna takes Aaron away, showing him a
mirror-like phenomenon that reflects the landscape
before them. Aaron brings up the video they
received from camp, but Anna denies sending it
to them. She swears she wouldn't have sent a video
outside of camp, especially not one that Justin
would find. When Aaron asks what she means, she
changes the topic, not wanting to ruin the mood.
Back at the camp, Justin
approaches the woman, Jennifer,
who's crying because she can't sleep while
everyone is partying. She'd been leaving
notes that ask people to be quiet, but
no one listens to her. Jennifer isn't
part of the group but is there because her
husband disappeared near the camp. For days,
she tried looking for her husband until Hal found
and brought her to camp. Tears wet her eyes as
she contemplates how long she'd been looking,
separated from her son, who's with her parents.
The next day, Justin takes
Aaron fishing, as Hal suggested.
Despite the strange things they've seen
in camp, Aaron wants to stay permanently.
Justin laments about leaving the world outside,
bringing up Jennifer, who's miserable in the camp.
As Aaron argues, Justin finds the buoy
from the polaroid floating on the lake.
Justin dives into the lake to search for
answers at the bottom, leaving Aaron alone.
When he doesn't surface after a while, Aaron
prepares to go after him. Justin appears behind
him, dropping something on the boat behind
him before climbing in. He stammers in fear,
claiming that something is in the lake and
ordering Aaron to row the boat back to the shore.
Back on land, they open the metal box that
Justin found on the bottom of the lake.
The ominous tape inside convinces
Justin to leave immediately.
Aaron protests, but Justin insists
on leaving, even if it's without him.
Tired of the same argument, Aaron relents and
asks to say goodbye to everyone before leaving.
That evening, they have dinner with the group
where Lizzy gives Justin a drawing of a shadowy
beast in the woods. Hal insists on playing the
tape that they found on the lake as a parting
ceremony, explaining that it's how the entity
that guards them communicates. The T.V. plays
the video of a younger Justin and Aaron acting
their culty version of Camp Arcadia to outsiders.
Humiliated, the brothers leave, but Hal stops
them, insisting that the message is meant to
forgive the two for shaming the camp to the
outside world. Aaron discovers that Justin's harsh
stories about the camp were lies, angering him.
But Justin explains that he lied because he knew
something was wrong in the camp. Hal, however,
suggests that Justin made up such stories because
he was desperate to leave. Even as a child,
Justin had been uncomfortable seeing no leader
that controls the camp. He accuses Justin of
wanting to be in control, which the latter denies.
Driven to the edge, Hal accuses Justin of ruining
the camp despite saving their lives from the car
accident that killed their mother. Due to Justin
and Aaron's stories, Hal and the others struggled
to do business in the outside world when many
people have seen their faces on the news,
thinking that they're a crazed cult. Justin isn't
swayed by his accusations, pointing out Jennifer,
terrified and hanging on false hope of ever
finding her husband. Justin insists on leaving,
but his brother refuses. Pissed, Justin berates
Hal, who tells him to make it easier for everyone
and leave by himself. Defeated, Justin
walks away, leaving his brother behind.
Justin heads to his car, but it doesn't start.
He takes his chances and walks on foot but finds
strange rocky markers blocking his way. He turns
back and finds a snake on the ground, but it
disappears as soon as he steps away. Behind him,
there's a cabin that he didn't notice earlier. He
spots a man entering the cabin and follows him
to ask for help. But when he opens the door,
the man has hung himself inside. Suddenly, another
man yells at him from behind. Justin tumbles down,
seeing that the man looks exactly like the
one hanging in the room. The other man,
Carl, ignores the body and
scolds Justin for being there.
Carl sets down chairs in front of the shack and
jokes about Justin returning to the death cult.
Justin is confused, wondering how he got lost and
how the same man who's been hung in the shack is
talking to him now. Carl chuckles, explaining that
the place is stuck in a time loop that repeats
tragic events repeatedly to appease the entity
residing there. People stuck in the loop have to
kill themselves to reset the time; otherwise,
the entity will kill them more viciously.
Carl tells Justin that if he wants to leave, he
has to do it before the loop resets, or else he'll
be stuck there like the others. But Justin wants
to get Aaron back first. Carl offers to help,
showing Justin that when someone stuck in the
loop passes beyond the markers, they are looped
back inside. But Justin can still pass them, so
the man asks him to get him a gun from Chris,
who's also stuck in another loop. Carl gives
Justin a compass, telling him to trust it and
not what he sees. Before Justin leaves, Carl
laments about being trapped even in his mind.
The entity doesn't let him sleep or dream,
so all he knows is the world inside his loop.
In the morning, Aaron wakes up and finds a flock
of birds creating a circular shape in the air.
The birds drop polaroids in front of him. Aaron
picks them up and sees one photo of a trailer
and himself. He gives the photos to Hal, who
theorizes that the entity that guards them
shows them what it sees, leading Aaron to think
it was watching him. Hal suggests heading to the
trailer in the photo, but Aaron is concerned
about Justin. Leaving the choice to him, Hal
tells him to follow a trail, warning him that he
has to find Justin before the third moon is full.
Aaron follows the trail as Hal suggested.
He passes beyond one of the loop markers,
then looks back. Anna walks into the same path on
the opposite side, but neither can see the other.
At Chris' house, Justin meets Chris and Mike.
Mike has Chris handcuffed inside to help him
get through addiction, reminding Justin
of the gun enthusiast that Lizzy talked
about. Mike returns with a hard drive that
contains another message from the entity.
He plays the video on his computer, seeing
another version of Mike and Chris, who get
killed after trying to escape the loop. The
entity is telling them that their plans will not
work. Chris advises Justin to escape the loop, no
matter what horrible thing the entity shows him.
On the other side, Aaron sees the old tent with
the clock on the front. Hearing the music and the
screams, he looks inside and sees a man that keeps
getting up from his seat, killed, then comes back
to where he started. The man sees him, saying
that he cannot help and he should leave. When
Aaron doesn't move, the man runs towards him then
explodes into a bloody mess, scaring Aaron away.
Mike lets Justin take guns from
the basement back in Chris’s house,
sharing how he still wants to escape
the loop. He mentions his wife and baby,
leading Justin to realize that he's Jennifer's
husband. He contemplates telling him where she is,
but seeing that they won't meet while
stuck in their different loops, he leaves.
After Justin is gone, Mike douses the house
with gasoline and lights it on fire. Justin
checks his bag, realizing that he left the
map that Carl drew for him in the house.
But Chris's house is already in flames, the map
burning along with it. In a blink of an eye,
the house resets with Chris sitting on the porch.
Mike arrives at the house as if nothing happened.
With the third moon nearly full, Justin
makes his way back to Carl's house,
using the compass as his guide. He
finds a trailer with a cougar nearby—the
cougar snarls at him but leaves. Aaron suddenly
appears, entering the loop around the trailer.
The brothers check the trailer with a note left
behind by the owner. Thinking that no one's home,
the two leave. As soon as they do, a projector
plays, showing the brothers leaving the trailer.
The projector suddenly flings into the air,
over the many contained loops in the area.
As the sun goes down, Aaron and Justin find
numerous statues while the camp gathers around
for a feast. The brothers reach Carl's cabin at
nightfall, leaving the gun and taking the map back
to Camp Arcadia. Here, Aaron decides that he still
wants to stay, despite the idea of being stuck in
the time loop forever. He's tired of struggling
with life in the outside world that he'd take
dying for a few seconds on each reset as long as
he's content with life when he's alive. Despite
the idea that he can never leave, Aaron prefers
it rather than struggling with Justin again.
Once they leave, Carl clambers out of his
cabin and takes the gun. He shoots it into
the abyss first before shooting himself on the
head. Even when he does this, his loop resets.
Returning to camp, they spot Jennifer leaving on
a bicycle and Tim unlocking the cabin that he's
been guarding. Inside, they find countless tapes
and records and a T.V. set at the center. The T.V.
switches on, showing them their experiences
in camp through the entity's point of view.
Then, it shows the camp gathered
around the bonfire that evening,
where it drops a rope in the middle of the
group. Frightened, Aaron runs to the bonfire,
but he's too late. The place is a wreck, with
the clothes of the group left behind. Justin
reminds him that they'll be back once the
time resets. The brothers sit down, waiting.
Justin decides to stay, not
wanting to leave his brother
behind. With Justin finally respecting
his decision, Aaron chooses to leave.
Suddenly, the camp begins to reset. The brothers
run to their car, but it doesn't start. Instead,
they push it downhill, with Justin giving Aaron
instructions on what to do. Aaron takes the wheel,
tired of letting Justin control their lives. The
brothers finally reconcile their differences,
promising to treat each other as equals
if they make it through this night. They
hop into the car as it speeds downhill, passing
through markers before the reset reaches them.
In daylight, the car appears out of nowhere.
The brothers escaped, leaving Camp
Arcadia and everyone in it behind.